Sahana Arun: Yeah. So do you remember any of those?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Yes.

Sahana Arun: Okay. What do you remember, Vineet?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Paraphrasing.

Sahana Arun: Mhmm. What is paraphrasing?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Everybody has a different state. Everybody has a different Different statement. The meaning of context by using other words.

Sahana Arun: You're basically confirming what the other person said. That is you're sharing in your own words, your understanding of what the other person is. Yes.

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: We know what you're saying.

Sahana Arun: Yes. Very nice. And what does this do? What are the benefits of paraphrasing, Vineet?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: You get an attention from

Senthilkumar.U: other Yeah. Sure.

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: You play with our you play with our praise, what they are understood. Mhmm.

Sahana Arun: Yes. We are sharing our understanding. Yes. But how does that help? Why am I sharing my understanding of what you said?

You have already said some things. Right. So why is it necessary for me to share my understanding of that? How does it help?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Purpose purpose our discussion making information.

Sahana Arun: What our discussion?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Intention. Intention. Purpose.

Sahana Arun: Can you make full sentences, Vineeth? I'm I'm really struggling to hear you. I'm not able to understand what you're trying to say. Can you please, uh, say it a little louder And make full sentences for what you want to say, please.

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: The intent, The topic of the sentence? What

Sahana Arun: Yes. Like, intent Am I trying to know the topic when I When I paraphrase and when I am talking about my understanding of what you said, is it about the topic?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: No. It's not a topic. It's kinda unimportant things.

Sahana Arun: But then why would I be paraphrasing if it is unimportant? Why would I be paraphrasing? I'm I'm not sure if you're if we're talking about the same idea. So can you once again Vineeth, I'm so sorry, but we need to go back because I'm not sure if you're sure of the idea. So can you tell me what you think paraphrasing is?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: That everything is a Restatement, uh, what we have understand from other stakers Yes. Yes.

Sahana Arun: So that is correct. Very nice. So that is exactly what paraphrasing is. Thank you. Good job.

But how is this beneficial? I am saying what I understood, but I don't understand how it benefits us. Sendhil, do you want to add to what Vineet said? So he's talked about why he thinks paraphrasing is important. Would you like to add a few thoughts here?

Why do you think it is important?

Senthilkumar.U: Evaluate.

Sahana Arun: Evaluate what? I've I've said several times, one word is not a response. Unless I'm asking you a yes or no question, I cannot know what you're thinking. Say full sentences To talk about what you mean, please. Evaluate what?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Uh, to Help people feel that their ideas are valid.

Sahana Arun: Yes. Very nice. You are validating the other person's Content and ideas. Very nice. Why else is this important?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Yes, uh, clarify clarity?

Sahana Arun: Yes. Excellent. I am clarifying, and I'm checking whether I have gathered the right meaning from what you're saying. Right? That's also a significant part.

Very nice job. Thank you. This is what I was looking for. I know you were saying the same things. But when you just use 1 word or a phrase, I'm unclear on the meaning.

Right? Which is why it is important for for you when we're discussing or even when you're talking to anybody that you use full sentences to present your ideas. That way, I have a better sense of what you're trying to say. Alright. Good job.

Thank you. What else do we remember?

Senthilkumar.U: No.

Sahana Arun: Sorry?

Senthilkumar.U: Appropriate response.

Sahana Arun: Mhmm. What do you mean by that? We had too long a break, and you have not reviewed the notes.

Senthilkumar.U: I'm so sorry.

Sahana Arun: I'm so sorry. I didn't feel you.

Senthilkumar.U: I used to be in

Sahana Arun: the I know. I know. Ari, I know, Sandeep. It's been a tough Don't worry about it. I totally understand.

I'm just saying that the discussion is going so haltingly. You all have both forgotten what we talked about. Do you want 2 minutes to discuss amongst each other? Maybe between the 2 of you, you can combine whatever you have and See what you, uh, can talk about here. Would you like that, or would you con would you want to continue discussing it like this?

What would you prefer? Feel like beneath frozen.

Senthilkumar.U: Yes. Fuck.

Sahana Arun: I know. Yeah. He's definitely frozen. He's not moving that all. K.

We'll wait for a minute and see. Maybe he'll rejoin us or something. Munit, can you hear us now?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Yes, sir. Power went off here because it seems mind blowing.

Sahana Arun: Okay. Okay. Did you hear the question we asked before your internet went off, Vinit?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: No. I didn't hear it.

Sahana Arun: Okay. I asked if you both would like about 2 or 3 minutes to discuss amongst each other and see what you remember about what we talked about with the video. Or do you want to continue discussing it like this? Because maybe you could combine your ideas and see what you have together. Or we can go on.

Up to you both. What do you feel?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: We needed time to regain the lost class.

Sahana Arun: Yeah? Okay. Sure. You can have 3 to 4 minutes are enough for you both to discuss. Okay.

Yeah? Okay. You can have that time. Feel free to put your notes together and talk about what you can add here. Alright?

I'm starting a timer. If you have any questions that I can answer as well, feel free to ask. Okay? In the meantime, you can discuss it with each other. Go for it.

Senthilkumar.U: Uh, will it talk about smart talk weird points? Points, appropriate response, passing, and the evaluate can you hear me?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Yes. I can hear you.

Senthilkumar.U: Okay.

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Do you know what what topics Inca, over the last medium. I know only 1 that happens.

Senthilkumar.U: Okay. We were talking about, Uh, is it connection not perfection, and when we saw some API side game and all, We thought about the And what so what? Uh, now what? Those kind of, uh, things and all went through the discussion last week.

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: It was in game name, like, Burger, then game name.

Senthilkumar.U: At the at the start, and then it's for the different between between right. At the start, and then it's At least that. It just became well. At least that said said no. The balloon should not fall down, So one should go and take the Yeah.

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: The foot The pasting

Senthilkumar.U: Yeah.

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Let me recollect

Senthilkumar.U: It helps to reduce antacitin.

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: More conversation with surrounding.

Senthilkumar.U: Yeah.

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Receiving the action. Receiving or sending the action. Sorry. Receiving or doing the action.

Senthilkumar.U: Okay.

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Some kind of topic. I and they didn't remember the topic, But I know the description of the tab preceding, uh, doing that. Okay. Just a minute.

Senthilkumar.U: What

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Just a minute. I'm connecting with my broadband network. Just a minute. Okay.

Sahana Arun: Vineeth, have you connected to the Internet yet?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: It's now connected.

Sahana Arun: Okay. Alright. Now we can continue discussing together. Alright? So you have presented a few points.

Now there's what, so what, now what. What was it about?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Um, game name. Hackysack.

Sahana Arun: Hackysack. That's correct. That you leave that. That is the first analogy. Right?

So that was more about trying to establish what small talk is. Now we are listing what are the ways in which it can be more effective or more engaging. Right? So, like, one of you brought up These these 3 questions. Right?

What? So what? Now what? This was with regards to creating

Senthilkumar.U: Any other letters? We can insert some other.

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: No. Did you know what this word mean?

Sahana Arun: I've given you all the letters at this point. There's only 3 left.

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Structure.

Sahana Arun: What is the logic? Structure. Very good. What is structure? That also I've already given the answer.

Senthilkumar.U: Logical flow of ideas. Important.

Sahana Arun: Yes. Very nice. Particular formation or a logical flow. Right? Why is structure important?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: So while we speak, we need to form the word In an arrangement, we

Sahana Arun: Okay. But is it about the words that we use? So, yes, we do have to do that, but what is the aim? What is the goal of doing that?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Goal is, uh, ensuring clarity. Mhmm. Presenting some ideas or thoughts. Mhmm.

Sahana Arun: Okay. Then what are these questions? What, so, what, now, what? What are they about? What is the

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: first thing. Yes.

Sahana Arun: The question, the idea, the product, the service, whatever. Right? And then what is so what?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Additional.

Sahana Arun: Additional what?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Let me So what means It's unimportant, right? It doesn't mean to

Sahana Arun: I'm not asking you the literal meanings of points? We were talking about these questions in context to structure, to creating structure, to engaging with it. Right? So what is the idea? That is the question what asks about the idea, the product, the service.

So what is the question so what about? What am I asking about? What is the question here? It's very difficult to have this discussion. Neither of you remembers anything.

It is very tough. Please, next time, do your best to avoid this. We cannot go into a discussion blind, especially when we've explored new ideas. Please do not come to the next session without having engaged, or you can even ask me for a refresher. Right?

It's okay if you forget. I totally understand. We've had a break. Not a problem. But I wish you'd ask me for a refresher.

It is so difficult to have this conversation without that. Neither of you remembers any of the things that the video talked about. We had an extensive conversation after we watched the video. You don't remember it. So how are we supposed to carry this discussion forward?

What do we do now?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Can we start Any can we start it from a fresh one?

Sahana Arun: We absolutely can do that. Do you mean you want to start fresh with the entire discussion? Yeah. Sure. We can do that.

Okay? Let's start at the beginning. What is small talk? We discussed the idea a couple of weeks ago. Right?

So what is it? Like you both said, it is important because it helps us Establish connection. Establish and maintain connection. We know that much. Right?

But what is small talk?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: It's a informal In polite conversation?

Sahana Arun: Yes. Informal polite conversation and

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: In case in case in a social location, right, other thing.

Sahana Arun: Sorry. What is that last thing you said, Vineet?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Engaged engaged with the social

Sahana Arun: Very nice. Yes. It Keeps people engaged and also make sure that you are engaging with people authentic. Very nice. Okay.

So this is what small talk is. Any questions so far?

Senthilkumar.U: Part of the day, we're doing some example before I start the session. So I'm asking, I'm I'm in a good chat with you, a small chat with you, and then Going to the the thing or in this version to the what or or I am doing. These are the examples you called. Okay?

Sahana Arun: Yes. Very nice. Right? Because otherwise yes. Even if I jumped into the lesson, it's not that you won't know what I'm saying.

But would it be helpful for me to jump into the lesson immediately? No. No. Right? So that is the reason we engage.

Very nice. Good job. And then earlier, both of you were talking about tennis and hacky sack. Right? What was this comparison he made last time?

Sorry. Not comparison. What was the analogy he made last time?

Senthilkumar.U: We have the quick response. We would

Sahana Arun: k.

Senthilkumar.U: That is such it will take we will make the flow Flow or we pass it.

Sahana Arun: Very nice. And are we always passing it back to the same person?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Group of players.

Sahana Arun: Yeah. So it could be anybody in that group. Right? So this means that it is different because This game is more focused on

Senthilkumar.U: points? What

Sahana Arun: Collaboration. Very nice. That is the whole point of this. Very good job. I remember that 1 sentence We saw that I fixated on for quite a bit.

Your goal is to be

Senthilkumar.U: Interested, not interesting.

Sahana Arun: What did this

Senthilkumar.U: mean?

Sahana Arun: What was the meaning of this that we discussed?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: We need to receive interest from others.

Sahana Arun: Is it about receiving or showing interest?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Receiving and showing. Both.

Sahana Arun: Both. Yes. Very nice. But here, the specific statement is talking about showing interest, not receiving. But, yes, I agree with you, Vineeth, in that both of those aspects are very important to sustaining those conversations.

But here, the purpose, your goal is to show an interest. You cannot you cannot have a goal for what the other person needs to do. Right? We are only talking about our goal. Your goal in this situation is to show an interest in the other person and not to keep trying to display that you are an interesting person.

Right. The idea is to display an authentic interest and curiosity in the other person. Any questions so far? No. Okay.

So now we have established what small talk is, why it is important, and what we're trying to do with it. So now we can go back to the previous bit of our discussion. Earlier, we were talking about the ways in which we engage more effectively. Right? So paraphrasing is one of those ways in which I'm able to confirm my understanding as well.

And I'm also validating you in that. I'm showing you that I've been listening to you when I summarize. I have to have listened to what you have to say. Right? So in that manner, when I paraphrase, I am displaying that curiosity and that interest in what you're having to say.

Right? So just like that, we also discussed a few other things. So now connection not perfection. Can anybody can either of you please expand on this idea? What are we talking about with regards to this?

Senthilkumar.U: We are we are going to we are making a connection. So we are we are going to have an informal talk. It should not be in Perfection as a formal distinct.

Sahana Arun: Even in formal interactions, are we chasing perfection?

Senthilkumar.U: No.

Sahana Arun: So then why why are we saying this? Why is this important?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Well, when we are engaging with the people, Uh, we are bringing them to part of the converse conversation. That is correct.

Sahana Arun: Mhmm. Agreed? You are bringing

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: part of the conversation making them to part of the conversation.

Sahana Arun: Mhmm. Mhmm. But what do we mean here? So what you're saying is about connection only. But here, we are talking about connection and not perfection.

So what is that What is that idea that we're trying to talk about here? So what Sendhil said is close to the point, But he's not there yet. Because that would mean that I have that I am required to be perfect in a formal interaction, which is not the case. Right. So what am I what are we really trying to say here?

Senthilkumar.U: Actually, none of those.

Sahana Arun: Sorry? What did you say, Vineet? I'm just thinking, Vineet. Okay. Okay.

Yeah. Sure. When someone talks to you and they make a mistake, Is that a problem? Does that cause the conversation to end? No.

No. It doesn't. So then?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: So my father find out If others find out that itching that he insert it, they don't know what it is.

Sahana Arun: Sorry? Sorry? Can you repeat that? If others find out

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Um, if if I am talking to other, they will find out I am imperfect and don't know it all. That's not perfect.

Sahana Arun: Yes. That's true. Right. But am I required to be perfect? That's what I'm not understanding from this.

Am I required to be perfect? What is perfection? When I want to be perfect, is there room for me to make mistakes?

Senthilkumar.U: No.

Sahana Arun: No. There isn't. And is that what we're trying to do with our interactions?

Senthilkumar.U: We may make mistakes.

Sahana Arun: We may make mistakes. Right? So then what what do you think this point point means? Connect those ideas.

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Although it seems perfect, NATO we have auto connection.

Sahana Arun: That is the main thing. Yes. The point of interacting with people is not to be perfect. It is to create connections. You are not looking for perfection.

You are looking for authentic connection. And that is the point that this is trying to make. When I make mistakes, we are I am running this training session. Right? I make make make mistakes in class sometimes.

Do you think does that Does that ruin our connection? Does that ruin your ability to listen when we discuss things? No. But that's because we already have a pre existing relationship. Right?

We have a connection and therefore, even when I make mistakes that is okay. Same goes for you also. You also make mistakes. But that's not the point of it. We are connected in this journey.

We are doing a process together and we are more oriented towards that than remaining perfect. Perfection is never the goal. When you think about human interaction, I need you to register that perfection is not the goal. It is one. It is unattainable.

Right? There is that aspect as well. But, also, with interactions, that is never what we're trying to do. We are trying to establish connection. And perfection and connection simply do not go together.

Any questions about this thought?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: No.

Senthilkumar.U: We can take this as our example also. So you are you are telling us something. So we we are disconnecting and we make mistakes. And even though we are connected.

Sahana Arun: Yes. Right? Because we are still doing this together. There's a connection between us regardless. Mean, I'm not just going to stop throwing things and getting angry because somebody doesn't remember things.

You'll say, okay. We're working on this together. This didn't happen. Now what can we do next? Right.

Actually, in fact, good good job bringing this up because it's like, okay. So we're having trouble running this discussion right now. Right? Neither of us None none of us is really able to remember stuff and things like that. So I may just be like, oh, this is terrible.

And, you know, they're bad, like and, you know, all of that. But it doesn't fix the problem. The problem still remains that you don't remember. Right? So whether I'm angry about it or helpful about it, the outcome remains the same.

So it is more about also that aspect, you know. Aside from the fact that you're only looking to create connection, a part of it is also that When you're when you're in a particular headspace and and unwilling to move from it, there is no solution oriented thinking either. Right? Which is another part of interacting with people that is very very important. It's a good one.

Okay. Now what about the next one? Why is structure important? What is structure? Why is it important?

You know the meaning of the word structure. See, what is happening is I think that you are trying to create some complex answers. And you think that if you just give me some simple statements, it is not going to be correct. Please know that interactions are very simple. We are discussing everyday ideas that you both interact with and have interacted with your whole lives without realizing it.

Right? So don't Try to think of some complex, complicated answer. Just answer logically. What is structure? What is the meaning of

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: it? Formation of words, ideas, or thoughts.

Sahana Arun: Yes. Right? It's a logic there's a there's a formation of it and there's a flow between all of that. So why is that important? Why should there be a flow?

If I give you all of the ideas, yeah, to avoid?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Unnecessary gaps, stop dumping between other word, Between idea means voice

Sahana Arun: You're focusing on the words which is not what we're trying to talk about. When we're talking about structure, Is it about the words or the ideas?

Senthilkumar.U: Ideas.

Sahana Arun: It's about the ideas. So why is the structure important when you're presenting ideas? How does that help? So we need the answer that you that you shared is actually relevant to just have to tailor it to that context. Because your your focus seems to be on language and not ideation, which is what we are trying to talk about.

So why is structure important when we present ideas?

Senthilkumar.U: Others should understand.

Sahana Arun: Others should understand. Yes. That is that is a very big part of it. And also that Without without creating that structure, there is no logic to the share itself. It's like when I tell you when I when we when we When, you know okay.

Actually, even another another observation from today's session. Oh, my video is not working?

Senthilkumar.U: Uh, Yeah.

Sahana Arun: Is it working now?

Senthilkumar.U: No.

Sahana Arun: What about now?

Senthilkumar.U: No blank.

Sahana Arun: I'm not sure what has happened. Okay. We'll continue. You can hear me clearly, though. Right?

Yeah. I can hear you. So I'm just gonna leave that be for now. I'll sort it after this session. Just I'm just gonna try once more.

Can you see me now?

Senthilkumar.U: No, sir. No no problem. You can go ahead.

Sahana Arun: Yeah. I think we should continue. Don't wanna waste any time. Right. So even today, right, when you don't remember the ideas, Was it productive for us to start in the ways in which it was engaging?

Where did we have to come back to next?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Come back come back with another idea.

Sahana Arun: Not another idea. See, today, when you all came to class, we were trying to discuss the ways in which we can be more engaging in small talk. Right? Did that help us have a productive discussion?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Yes.

Sahana Arun: How was it productive? We didn't remember anything. We got stuck No.

Senthilkumar.U: It's not productive. We refreshed it again.

Sahana Arun: We refreshed. Right? We went back to the Beginning. That's exactly the point. When we started in the middle without the information there from the beginning, when you have forgotten the beginning information, Then the rest of it doesn't make any sense because you're trying to contextualize to something that you don't have in your mind yet.

Structure is very significant because I if I tell you the now what before the what, then what am I even saying the now what about? Okay. Firstly, I wanna say, I want both of to watch this video again. Yeah. You literally do not remember anything at all.

It is impossible for me to have this conversation without you having some context. And, also, next time so this is also telling me that your notes are not in a way that you understand. Because by if you if you are making notes in a way that you are able to understand the logic of what you're saying, but we would not be this disconnected from the ideas because I can understand if it's been a month. It's only been 2 weeks since we met. You you should have good enough systems of notes where you are at least able to understand what you have made of what we have said.

Agree or disagree?

Senthilkumar.U: Agree.

Sahana Arun: Yeah? So your notes have got to, first of all, change. I'm not happy with the way in which neither of you has taken notes. Because the next week, you're able to remember, but with any bigger gap, you're not able to remember. And that will become useless to you because at the end of the day, we We started our classes in May, right, or or April or something like that, and you're not going to be able to know what it what those notes say them.

So first of all, please think of the way in which you're taking notes. It is great that you are doing them, I will say, but it's important for you to be able to make sense of the notes as well. Right? Otherwise, it's pointless. Agree or disagree?

Senthilkumar.U: I disagree.

Sahana Arun: Right? So please think about that, first of all. Now I'm gonna play you the video again. Alright? Because this genuinely, I don't feel that the discussion is productive because All of these things are things that we discussed that day, and you can feel free to add your own ideas.

It doesn't have to be about this. But But I feel like you're getting stuck with the with the words instead of the ideas. So I'm just gonna play the video again. But I want you to know that in general, getting stuck On the words, getting stuck on specific details is not productive for your general understanding because at the end of the day, all of these are Unstructured in the sense that it is just ideas. Right?

We're just talking about ideas with regards to communication between 2 or more speech. These are all things that you do every day. There's no need for you to get so caught up in the very, very small intricacies of it because the ideas themselves are fairly simple, Which is not to say that you having trouble with them is not nothing like that. I just mean that don't try to overcomplicate it in your head. That's all I'm trying to say.

I think you're both trying to come up with more complex responses, but that is not necessary. The answers are actually very simple. You don't have to stray very far to find them. Okay. So stay simple.

The whole point of these discussions is that we're just trying to discuss ideas that we're already sort of engaging with regularly. Alright? So Do you have any thoughts to add here? Are you able to add any points or any ideas to this right now? Like I said, again, don't try to think of anything complicated.

What do you remember from last time? That is all I am asking.

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Big size and concise.

Sahana Arun: Yes. Very nice. What is the meaning of being concise, uh, Vineeth? When I am being concise, am I speaking very at length, or am I speaking in brief?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Taking brief but comprehensively.

Sahana Arun: Yes. Briefly but comprehensively. Very nice. That's a great phrase, And that's exactly it. Why is concision important?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: So give our information clearly to others.

Sahana Arun: Yes. Very nice. They are Creating a clarity of message. Very good job. This is what I meant.

You don't have to keep staying on whatever it is. Maybe you've forgotten one point. I'm just In general, what do you remember? Right? So this is one more addition.

What else do we remember from last time?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Nothing much.

Sahana Arun: Okay. What about you, Sendhil?

Senthilkumar.U: Tell me more, welcome. Tell me more. Give me more.

Sahana Arun: Very nice. Tell me more. What do you think this is helpful for? Yes. Sorry?

What did you say, Vineet?

Senthilkumar.U: Tell me more. Give me more.

Sahana Arun: Give me more wasn't a part of it, but I'm not saying we can't say that. I'm asking you why why is this significant? What is Why do we say tell me more? What does this help with?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: To get much information. Right. To get more information.

Sahana Arun: Very nice to get more information than you have. And what does that help with?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: To understand very clearly.

Sahana Arun: Sorry? Understand

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: the Statement. What is Yes.

Sahana Arun: To understand the statement better. Sure. And it also gives you time to absorb what the other person is saying so that you can create a better response. Right? So that is 1 more way to do it.

Yes. Very nice. What else do we

Senthilkumar.U: remember? No. We don't.

Sahana Arun: Oh. Sorry? Pausing. Yes. Very nice.

Why does pausing

Senthilkumar.U: help?

Sahana Arun: Okay. I tell you what. We're gonna watch the video now. Okay? I want you to make different notes For them, more detailed notes.

Alright? And we will discuss this. We will just have a 2 to 3 minute discussion at the beginning of our next class and get Started with practice.

Senthilkumar.U: Mhmm.

Sahana Arun: Alright? Okay. Can you see the screen, both of you? Yes. We can.

We can. Okay. Great.

Speaker 3: Small talk, I think, is actually a misnomer.

Sahana Arun: Hear him?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Yes. Yes.

Sahana Arun: Okay. I'm just gonna move a bit forward.

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: I scored an 8 back in IELTS in just a week. Unbelievable. Right? You can do it too with agents who

Speaker 3: Small talk, I think, is actually a misnomer. We refer to small talk as any chitchat or just Conversation that we don't put a lot and when you paraphrase it, you do several things. Happens, and we have to respond To do it as quickly as possible. We have this sense that speed to respond in somehow is associated with competence. But, really, what it reflects best on your competence is an appropriate response.

Inappropriateness can take a little bit of time. We have all said something we didn't mean to say because it wasn't clear, it wasn't appropriate. Pausing helps reduce that likelihood. So here are some things you can do to help Slow yourself down. Paraphrasing is wonderful.

Why? Not just because you are repeating the gist of what somebody said to make sure you're clearly going to on to what's asked or what's needed, but paraphrasing forces you to slow down and listen more carefully. Paraphrase isn't what a 5 year old does who parrots back what you've said. It's a distillation of what the other person said. And when you paraphrase it, you do several things.

1, you validate the other person because you're saying, I heard you. You're not necessarily agreeing. Paraphrasing doesn't mean agreement. It just means this is what I heard, and it validates the content. So you validate the person with the content.

The person will say, no. No. No. No. What I really meant was this.

So it helps with fidelity. Most of us listen just enough to get the gist of what somebody's saying, And then we immediately start judging, rehearsing, and responding. When I paraphrase, I have to listen super intently. I have to listen To understand what's the bottom line of what you're saying, that slows me down. And by slowing my own thoughts down And then paraphrasing them, I buy myself some time to really think.

There's always something to say. You can always ask a question. My mother-in-law was amazing at small talk. She had a black belt in small talk. And her superpower was a simple phrase.

She would pause for a moment, and she would say, tell me more. If you are ever in a in a situation, a communication, conversation where you don't know what to say, Most of the time, you could simply say, tell me more or give me some more detail or what did you mean about that point? And just By giving the person an opportunity to speak again, that gives you time to find what you might want to say and to connect to it.

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Tell me more.

Speaker 3: When you say tell me more, you have to act inquisitively. If you just say tell me more, it's not but if you say, tell me, yeah, tell me more. You know, tell me more about that, Kip. Mistakes are normal and natural in communication. We make them all the time.

Spontaneous communication is about connection, not perfection. You know, in film and TV, Directors will ask their actors to have multiple takes. A take is just another shot at doing the same thing. So an actor might say something in one way very passionately, and or they might say it in another way more being more curious. Those are all different takes.

So I'd like people to reframe a mistake as a missed take. What you did wasn't wrong. There might be another way to do it, And we can try it again. Many of us, when we feel very uncomfortable in spontaneous Speaking situations, we go on too long. We're discovering what we're thinking as we're thinking it.

So we just take people on the journey of our thought process? Process as we're speaking, and we keep going on and on and on. It's almost a defensive technique, where if I just throw out a lot of stuff, That maybe something will stick, and and people will think, oh, that person's smarter. They know what they're talking about. Concision is almost always better in communication.

My mother has this wonderful saying. I know she didn't create it, but it's Tell me the time, don't build me the clock. Many of us are clock builders in these spontaneous speaking situations. We have to remind ourselves when we start speaking, just tell the time. I'm I I know the irony that I'm talking about concision, and I was not concise in that answer.

One of the best ways to be concise and clear is to leverage Sure. Structure is not a listing of ideas. It's not bullet points. Structure is a logical connection of your points. It's like a recipe or a map.

Now this sounds ironic. Right? We're talking about being spontaneous, and here I am saying structure is the key to spontaneity. But we see this in our life in many other facets. If you enjoy jazz music, jazz music isn't just random playing.

Jazz music follows particular structures, Chord progressions, connections of notes so we can leverage structure to help our communication be tighter and clear.

Sahana Arun: Oh, fascinating.

Speaker 3: One of my favorite structures of all time, because it's so useful in so many different situations, is is 3 simple questions. What, so what, Now what? The what is your idea, your product, your service, your belief. The so what is why is it important to the person or people you're talking to. And the now what is what comes next.

Maybe I'm going to show you something, take your questions, set up another appointment. When it comes to small talk, This is a magical tool. Imagine you're at a corporate mixer, and you're going in and there are people in the company that you have not yet met. So if I'm engaging you in conversation, I could say, hey. What brings you here?

That's the what. When you answer, I could say, oh, why is that important, or why do you find that interesting? That's the so what. And then after that, I can ask a question like, oh, so what more are you going to do? Or what are you going to do next?

Or do you wanna join me and go over it? So I've got the now what is a question. As with anything that you're trying to learn, you have to practice it. When you read something or listen to a podcast, pause it, Stop your reading. Think what was it about?

Why is it important to me? And how can I use it? By drilling it, it becomes more natural. When we're in small talk situations, we often initiate with trite, very common phrases. How are you?

What brings you here? What do you do? These are simple, reflexive ways to get started, but they actually don't take you very far. I am a big fan of initiating through questions, but through questions that connect to the particular context and environment that I'm in. Just the other day, I was in a situation for small talk.

And the very first thing I did, I came up to somebody I didn't know, and I said, this is amazing to me. There are more people in this room wearing blue parts? Than I think I've seen in a long time. And the person said, you know what? You're right.

That's really interesting. And all of a sudden, the conversation was off and running. All I did was notice something in the environment. Initiating with something that piques somebody's curiosity, something that might be highlighting, something that's not Known or commonly discussed in the moment can really invite people in versus, hi. How are you?

And they say, fine. Well, now I'm back to where I started, and it's even more awkward. Right? Perhaps More challenging than initiating small talk is getting out of small talk. Many of us rely on biology.

Oh, I'm thirsty. I'm gonna go get a drink. I'm hungry, or I need to go to the True. Biology is not necessarily the best exit for these circumstances. I love an approach I learned from Rachel Greenwald that's called the white flag approach.

If you know anything about auto racing prior to the last lap, the final lap, they wave a white flag to signal to all the drivers that the race is ending. As you're drawing near to the end of the conversation either because you need to leave or you want to leave or the conversation has sort of run its course, You signal that. You say, I need to go in a moment, but and this is where you ask 1 last question, provide 1 less bit bit of feedback. So you you Continue the conversation on for a little bit. So it might sound something like this.

Uh, I need to get going because there's some friends over there I need to meet. Before I go, I wanna know just a little bit more about that trip you were telling me about to Hawaii. And together, you can draw the conversation to an end rather than you abruptly saying, Oh, I need to go to the bathroom or, wow, that looks like good food over there. It it's just a much better, cleaner way to end a small talk conversation.

Sahana Arun: Okay. Did this jog memories for you? I bet you remembered a lot of it, but then once you watched it a bit, it may have refreshed some things. Yes? Yes.

Senthilkumar.U: Just a moment. Yes, ma'am.

Sahana Arun: Okay. Alright. So I'm wondering, can we do a quick, Uh, so now I mean, of course, it is time, so you have to go. But can we do maybe a quick session at some point, maybe tomorrow, just 20 minutes to review what we've learned, and then we can continue with practice next week. Is that doable for, uh, for both of you?

Senthilkumar.U: Monday will be possible.

Sahana Arun: Monday, we can do that. Yes. We can absolutely do it on Monday. Monday afternoon works for you? Both?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: Yeah. Sorry.

Sahana Arun: Okay. What time?

Vinith Jeba Kumar J: After all 30.

Sahana Arun: Okay. 3 o'clock?

Senthilkumar.U: Yeah. Okay. Okay.

Sahana Arun: Super. I'll see you both at 3 o'clock. 3 to 3 20 or 3:30, we'll discuss depending on how the conversation is going. And then we, uh, we can meet on Thursday as usual for our practice. Okay.

I just wanna make sure that we have all the information because if we still have confusion after Monday, then we can we can do the discussion differently. That's why I'm trying to make sure that we have this. Alright. So does either of you have any questions for me right now?

Senthilkumar.U: No. Not only.

Sahana Arun: Okay then. I hope you took more detailed notes this time. We will discuss on Monday. And before we meet on Monday, if you want to discuss with each other as well, of course, feel free to do so. And if there's anything I can help you with, please let me know.

Alright? Okay. Thanks, both of you. Um, I will see you on Monday. Take care of yourselves.

Bye bye.
